# History
## English settings
To do a blog is a while on my todo-list. So here we go.

This my first blog post. Do not judge my english too hard. I am not a native speaker, and although my english is almost fluent,
depending on day time, brain fog, audience, speaking or writing and other mysterious independent variables,
there are mistakes and a lot of missing vocabulary. I struggled a lot with languages in school. My expertise is and was more on the numbers.

## Who am I
Once upon a time (1975) I was born in Augsburg, Germany. I studied statistics (diploma) in Munich and lived there for a while.
I married and had two children. My wife died 2019, after 2 years struggling with cancer.
I am single parenting with my two sons born 2006 and 2010. I am working at an clinical research organization over 25 years now.
In the moment only two days a week.

## Statistics, data science, kaggle and fast.ai

### Studies
While studying statistics I was working at Stablab. I was very excited about the versatility in this job.
I helped other students of different fields (e.g economics, veternarians, fairy tales, wind speeds and others) with their statistics for their doctoral and other thesises. 
My own thesis was for BMW, regression analyzes in the context of crash tests.

### Kaggle
After completing my diploma, my interest in new statistical methods was less pronounced. I stuck in my field and work. Some regressions with variable selection
and a lot of descriptive statistics for the pharmaceutical industry. Everything programmed with SAS.

This changed 2011. At this time I found kaggle.com and was amazed about predictive modelling. 
Suddenly I was interested in other statistical methods since they outperformed my own regressions. State of the art was in these days was random forests.
An outstanding performer was Jeremy Howard. I am still a very big fan of him, such an inspiring person! Big thanks to him, if he will ever read this. I don't think so.

Over the next view years I did some kaggling with very minor success. With two young childs, a job to do, a wife to love/deal (you can choose), time was very limited.
At kaggle they began with Jupyter notebooks. The workflow was different to my own workstyle and it threw me somehow out! 
Unbelivable in restrospective, cause I am using Jupyter a lot now.

Next episode was deep learning and I guess this was the most dissatisfying phase. I had the wrong GPU and the language of the experts was so IT screwed. It was
more about software/hardware installation than statistics. I gave up for another few years!















